Israel's military says it has taken full
control of the strip of land that serves
as a buffer zone between Gaza and Egypt
Israel says Hamas uses tunnels in the 14
kilometer long Philadelphia Corridor to
smuggle weapons from Egypt into Gaza the
Israeli military has stepped up its
operations meanwhile in southern Gaza
despite International criticism over
mounting civilian casualties in the city
of Rafa Israel's National Security
advisor says the offense in Gaza is
expected to go on at least until the end
of the
year here's Israeli Army spokesman
Daniel hagari addressing the latest
developments in
Gaza in recent days IDF forces have
taken operational control of the
Philadelphia Corridor along the border
between Egypt and Rafa the Philadelphia
Corridor served as an oxygen pipe for
Hamas through which it regularly
transits weapons to the Gaza Strip kav
and our Jerusalem correspondent Rebecca
ritters joins me now Rebecca Israel says
it has taken control of the buffer zone
between Gaza and Egypt what does that
mean for the situation on the
ground well that's right you just heard
it there from the senior military
spokesman Daniel hagari saying that they
had indeed taken control of that border
region area known as the Philadelphia
Corridor uh that they had found some 20
tunnels they say along that border area
and they also found rocket launchers
placed very close to the Border some
just 10 to 40 m they say from that
border area hagari saying that they
would that Hamas are T were taking
advantage of the proximity to the Border
uh in the knowledge that or hope I
suppose that Israel wouldn't bomb that
region because it is just so close to
the Egyptian border now as you just
heard there Daniel hagari saying that
that they this had served as a Hamas
oxygen Pipeline and that by securing
this are they have cut off the weapon
Supply uh that Hamas was still
potentially maintaining and able to use
now um the they say that the egyp the
Israeli military say that they have been
updating Egypt on the developments and
we haven't heard a huge amount of
reaction from from Egypt yet but
certainly uh One Source telling Egyptian
Media One senior Source we're hearing
that there are no Truth uh in the
statement about these tunnels it's
certainly going to be interesting to see
how the Egyptians react to the news uh
on this border region given the the the
peace agreement that is held between the
two countries yeah how could this impact
Israel's relationship with Egypt you
think well it's difficult to say at this
stage Nicole you know Israel has been
saying for some time that it wants to
that has wanted to take control of this
border region it's something that Egypt
hasn't been uh very keen to uh to
promote they Egypt has long been worried
that there would be that a raer
incursion and that that more military
bombardment in that area would cause uh
an influx of Palestinian refugees into
Egypt that's something that they were
saying that they they wouldn't do in
fact on several occasions Egypt has
threatened to rip up the peace treaty
between Israel and Egypt now that area
along the border uh has been a
demilitarized zone since the the Camp
David Accords of 1978 and since 2005 has
been under Egyptian control um before
this Rafa Invasion though we do know
that an Israeli delegation uh went in
went to Egypt went to Cairo to discuss
the operation with the Egyptian
officials so we don't know the details
of those discussions but it could be
assumed that this operation and what the
Israelis were planning was conferred to
the Egyptians so it's going to be
interesting to see how Egypt balances uh
domestic pressures there's a lot of
support for Palestinians within Egypt so
it's going to have a lot of domestic
pressure from its populace there uh and
it balances also a peace treaty which it
benefits from by way of of us uh uh Aid
so you know it's certainly going to be
interesting to see just how Egypt react
to this latest development but at at
this stage it's still too early to say
you keep us updated on all the
developments there that was Rebecca
ritters in Jerusalem thank you so
much Michael CLK Clark is a defense
analyst and a visiting professor at
King's College London he joins us now
Michael let's start with the latest
Israel claims to have taken full control
of the Philadelphia Corridor that buffer
zone between Egypt and Gaza what does
that mean for the situation on the
ground well it means they've achieved
one of their tactical objectives I mean
the corridor is about 11 kilometers long
from the Israeli border up up to the
Mediterranean coast and they always knew
that they would have to take control of
this Corridor because
lots of smuggling goes on there it's
it's full of tunnels the Egyptians claim
that they've they've prevented all the
tunnels from working that they blocked
them or they've intercepted them but
nobody believes that lot of lot of
tunnels still exist and so it was always
the case that Israelis from a tactical
point of view had to drive their own
forces all the way along the southern
Gaza Border in order to seal the the
Border themselves and that will create a
certain amount of tension with the
Egyptians just on the other side of the
Border but it means from their military
point of view they can now try to work
through their policy in Rafa um in that
they've now reached the center of Rafer
and will push on towards I think alasi
um on the coast which is designated as a
safe area Israel and the US are still
calling the Rafa offensive limited what
would an allout offensive look like
then I think in all that offensive would
look pretty much like what they're doing
to be honest um it's hard to see in what
way this offensive is limited because
they moved um five brigades they they
created two divisions the 162nd and the
98th Airborne Division for this phase of
the operation then they put the 998th
division to the north and they mobilized
out of 13 brigades they both they were
two big divisions out of 13 brigades
they mobilized 10 of them five brigades
have gone to the north five brigades are
working in the South and they're pushing
us as fast as they can and so they moved
into the Eastern out skirts then into
the center of Rafer and now they'll move
to the West u i mean this and they're
bombing as they go whenever they see
targets so um I mean they were bombing
yesterday at the talal a couple of days
ago at the um talal Sultan um area the
tented area because they felt that they
had two particular um uh terrorists I
mean two Hamas people yazin Rabia and
Khaled Naga they think they thought they
had them so they went after them
regardless of the civilian casualties
that that caused so to be honest I can't
see any difference between what they're
doing now and an allout offensive yeah I
want to talk about that attack a little
later but first I want to bring up
something that Israeli officials
announced today they said that the war
in Gaza will go on at least until the
end of the year why so long and what
shape could that
take um I can't tell you what shape it
will take because the whole thing has
become incoherent from a military point
of view I'm a military analyst I cannot
tell you what the what the strategy is I
cannot see a coherent strategy in what
the IDF are doing all that they know is
that they have to say it will take some
more time because they don't know what
to do next the strategy in effect is
going around in circles they were told
to destroy Hamas which they cannot do
they can dismantle hamas's physical
presence and they can kill quite a lot
of Hamas people but they're probably
creating more Hamas people than they are
killing just by their actions and the
the the policy seems to lack any
coherence
so for instance at Christmas in December
they had 20 brigades across Gaza 20
brigades they rapidly reduce that down
to five brigades then one Brigade now
they've gone back to 10 brigades within
a month and I cannot give you a sensible
rationale as to why they did that
because they've cleared the area say
from Khan Yunis they cleared it they
withdrew now they've gone back into KH
Unis because Hamas keep popping up there
the same with jabalia they've twice
they've cleared the jabalia refugee camp
and now they're going back in for a
third time because Hamas keep popping up
so there is no military coherence to
this strategy and the IDF yov Galant the
defense minister basically said that
last week he said unless we are given a
proper political construct from the
government meaning Netanyahu unless you
tell us what the day after is supposed
to look like we cannot P pursue a
sensible strategy which delivers that
that's the problem that they've got yeah
now that you mentioned the lack of a
plan for for the day after I want to
bring up something the US Secretary of
State said because he talked about that
again which has been a big point of
contention let's listen into what he had
to
say in the absence of a plan for the day
after there won't be a day after a plan
for the day after that does not leave
Israel responsible for Gaza which it
says it does not want to be uh but if it
is it will simply have an enduring
Insurgency on its hands for as far as
one can see into the future or not if
not Hamas will be left in charge which
is unacceptable or if not we'll have
chaos lawlessness and a vacuum that
eventually will be filled Again by Hamas
or maybe something if it's possible to
imagine even worse Michael you say the
military operation at this point looks
incoherent to you uh do you have any
idea what Israel's long-term strategy
could
be no um I mean most people who have
looked at this say look the day after
and Anthony blinkin there was expressing
I think his his exasperation and
frustration at all of this we we know
that to to move forward somehow we've
got to start to think about the
Palestinian people as a whole not just
in Gaza but in the West Bank there has
to be a new deal for the Palestinians we
know that the two-state solution is dead
but we all have to go and revisit the
corpse and pretend that it isn't dead in
order to try to create something out of
the fact that two groups of people about
10 million each both want to live in the
same part of the world so that suggests
that something like a two-state solution
will have to emerge even whatever we
whatever we turn out to call it and we
can't get get even to the beginning of
that conversation until the military
operation is at an end and Hamas is
replaced by something else so at the
moment we all know what the ingredients
are and those ingredients are waiting
for us at Square One let's say but we
can't even get to square one because the
Israeli government won't anticipate or
won't won't talk about what the day
after might look like but they have to
and the reason they won't talk about it
of course is because a lot of this
crisis is concerned with the political
survival of Benjamin Netanyahu and
because he's he's got the ultra right
wing on one side and he's got people
like Benny Gans and yov Galant on the
other who are pragmatists and I wouldn't
have called them pragmatists a few
months ago but they are now um and he is
struggling to stay in power uh at almost
any cost and so he will not make a
decision um on the what the day after
looks like and so so while he refuses to
make a decision this this whole crisis
just keeps going around in circles and
we can't even get started on what the
political process might look like and
there's any number of people trying to
work it out the Americans are putting a
lot of effort in the qataris are the
Saudis are the Europeans are everyone is
trying to think about what the next
stage might look like but we can't even
get to the starting point yeah and it
looks like right now we are stuck with a
dramatic situation in Rafa huge
International outcry after that attack
on a tent camp over the weekend still
the US insists the current operation is
not crossing any red lines do you think
there is a red line for the Biden
Administration well there may not be I
what understands Joe Biden's problems uh
because I mean he needs this whole
crisis like a hole in the head during an
election year this is the worst possible
thing that could have happened to him
when he's fighting uh an election in
November and so he has to be very
careful he's trying to bring pressure on
Netanyahu by all means he can without
cutting off final support to Israel if
he cuts off that support then he will do
himself a great deal of political damage
in the United States but he's he's tried
everything he can and Netanyahu keeps
telling him that that Israel will be
restrained and then just ignoring what
he said and um I think that you know the
relationship between Netanyahu and Biden
is about as low as it could possibly be
in real you know we thought relations
between Netanyahu and Obama couldn't get
any worse but I think that that that
President Biden must be so angry with
Netanyahu because Netanyahu will not
stick to any any deal he makes over the
telephone as to what he will or won't do
because he's fighting for his political
life and the first slip that Netanyahu
makes he will be out of power there'll
be an election he will lose the election
and be back in court on corruption
charges those defense analyst Michael
Clark excellent speaking to you thank
you so so much for making the
time pleasure